we're talking about Otto may have been Otto may have been the first person to have realized that you could license the use of a photograph and you still had the photograph I mean the whole sense of oh wait a minute you mean I sold it and I still have it I think he really so in a way he is and without really owning it either well also without even owning it that's right I mean you can
I mean, as Laurie was pointing out earlier, it's non-exclusive use, right?
I guess.
Right.
Well, for Corvus, it's a mixture.
I would say that there are today something like 425 sources in the Corvus archive, in the Corvus collection.
Of those 425, I don't have the exact numbers, but probably high 300s of them are
are non-exclusive licensing.
A small group of maybe 30 or 40 are purchases.
They're very important, and one of them is the Bettman Archive.
Another one is the work of the photojournalist David and Peter Turnley that was announced over in the last two weeks.
How do you spell his name?
T-U-R-N-L-E-Y.
In fact, Turnleys have been
I believe, more covered in the New York Times and other publications, not only for the work they have photographed, but also about them.
I mean, they're richly, if you did a search... This was in the last couple of weeks of the Times?
Well, no, the Times actually carried the purchases as a small story, because they had been focusing so much on the turnways.
It was an exhibition.
that they have at the International Center of Photography that I think is still open.
Okay, I know what you're talking about.
And the pictures that you would recognize from Tiananmen Square are from them.
They've won every prize that one can win.
And, of course, they have a million and a half photographs that they've taken over their 20-plus years.
I'll check it out.
The New York Times actually didn't make as big a story out of it as they did out of the Bettman purchase, in part because of the fact that the Turnleys had gotten so much ink on their own previously.
Also, there is a resonance to Bettman.
It astounded me that he was alive.
I've seen Bettman archives stuff for as long as I can remember.
It never occurred to me that this was put together by a living person.
Have you ever seen A Portable Batman, a book called A Portable Batman?
Otto showed me his own copy of it.
Do you want one?
I'd love one.
I would really... Wow.
You know, what just occurred to me is... Why don't... You know, I've talked to Otto on the phone.
Why don't you call Otto, if you would, for me, Laurie, and simply say that... I mean, actually, you referenced this meeting.
I'm sure he remembers.
Sure.
And say, you know, it occurred to us that it might be useful for him to have a small number of copies of.
Could we do that?
And then half a dozen.
He didn't have any.
Oh, yeah, we'll fix that.
And he gave me a couple of other books, you know, the book that he did that he gave to the Library of Congress.
Right.
Wonderful.
He's just a delight to be with Fitch there.
Well, he did.
Wow.
One of the books that I have that he did.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
That's great.
We love that.
And the production of that's an interesting story when the company which was called Bettman after, you know, got out of that business in 1980 and the Krauss organization built it up from what was
A relatively small business.
Three million photographs.
They added UPI and some other collections.
And they decided that they could produce this and make money selling it.
The problem is that they kind of went into the book business.
And the beauty of this thing, and also the ugliness of it, is
It works as a catalog, but it's too damn expensive as a catalog.
And it turns out that they never figured out the marketing of it as a book.
You mean Krause?
Krause did.
And so the guy who produced that, who was the director, his name is David Greenstein, was really, it was his child.
Producing that was so costly for them that it damn near cost them his job, and he ended up being out of there.
And it's because...
This thing came sort of in that abyss between something that you could really sell, although I think you could have sold it.
I think if it had been marketed... It's magnificent.
It's amazing.
The first time that I raised the idea with Bill Gates about... I tested him out on whether... See, at Corvus, we had started... I had known Herb Gestalter, who was the director of Vetements,
and who's married to a Krauss and is the head of the Krauss organization today.
He's the director of Bettman today.
How do you spell his name?
G-S-T-A-L-D-E-R.
And I've known Herb.
Herb and I, I lived in Chabaclar, New York, for 13 years.
Herb lives there.
Herb's best friend is a close friend of mine in IBM.
So we knew each other, but we really intersected through a third person.
I actually now lives in Dallas.
I started talking to Herb about possibly licensing from Bettman on a non-exclusive, you know, licensing basis.
And then it progressed along, and then it became clear to me that there was an opportunity.
And so when I raised it with Bill Gates, I brought that book in to the meeting that I have.
He got lost in the book.
He started, it was actually very interesting.
He spent 10 or 15 minutes
And it's like one of those ones, should I stay?
Should I leave?
And you get really engrossed in it.
They can comment.
It's very funny.
It's nice.
But anyway, you started by saying that Otto basically pioneered this whole concept.
Right.
I think that he did.
I mean... Of the licensing.
Of the licensing.
The ability to license.
By the way, whether you own or license, I think at Corvus, probably half of what in quantity is in the archive we're going to own, and half
either own or it's going to be public domain.
That's another actually important point.
That's right, but what's to stop somebody like myself from going to the Library of Congress and getting something that's available?
Nothing, except that you won't spend the time doing it, and you won't spend the cost doing it.
You'll pay us a fee rather than do that.
Well, when Otto was looking at my book, and I've got some pretty wonderful illustrations in it, which I researched, acquired, I was telling Laurie, you know, paid good money to get, blah, blah.
Otto said,
You did all this yourself?
He says, you should have come to us.
We could have done the whole thing for you.
Convenience.
Who knew?
I didn't know.
I contacted the British Library, the British Museum, wherever to get these illustrations.
Well, there's an interesting thing.
I am a lover of books.
My wife and I have
I was almost going to say too many books, but when we moved up here from California, I think we had 90 cartons of books.
So, you know, we're a big move.
Somebody moves us, it's a serious... We're afraid to move because moving with books would be impossible.
And when we left California, we also made a decision that novels were not keepers, so that the books that we kept this 90...
cases were basically reference of various types.
And my wife uses them constantly.
I use them slightly less.
So it's a working library.
It's a working library.
And it's, you know, I mean, she's in it all the time.
In fact, she gave David Fite, she had a copy of the new Stockstead History of Art, and they had given me one.
And she said, I've got to get another one of those, because she loaned it to somebody.
She said, I use that.
I mean, and that's, of course, the beauty.
Now,
when you move from the basis, I agree with you, and this isn't a gratuitous comment, I agree with you on the importance of books.
I also believe that books are not in any great danger of becoming less important in the near future anyway.
But what I think the electronic can afford is
is kind of a new perspective on the same material that ideally will be used in a complimentary way to books, or in a complimentary way.
So, when you go to a library, and as we all did through college, and you've been researching in a library probably more recently than I have, you know,
Researching in a library in terms of the way the information is organized is really a hit-and-miss kind of a deal.
You go down a lot of black holes.
I mean, a lot of... Well, they're kind of fun sometimes, too.
It is fun.
But it depends upon your time.
Serendipity, I think, is the most exciting thing.
And actually, I've learned that you can do serendipity on a computer, too.
Right.
I'm sorry.
No, it's okay.
No.
But, you know, I'm an old-style library researcher, but before I go into...
Cambridge to work at the Widener Library, I call up the Hollis online, you know, computer catalog of 13.5 million titles, find out precisely what I'm looking for, where it's located, so I don't fool around when I get to the library.
I go right in, go straight to the stacks, and get the books that I'm looking for.
You know, I mean, I use the computer in a way that, for my home.
That's right.
So, I mean, I don't know if that's what you're alluding to.
Well, what I'm alluding to is that, is that, uh,
See, I don't think the information in books is very accessible electronically.
I mean, it is and it isn't.
Some parts of it are, some parts of it not.
I just put the data out at Stanford, and I can see whether online is absolutely going to be essential.
Good go.
And the books aren't good.
Yes, and science.
And journals where they'll only publish 1,000 of them at best that will cost $150 for these monographs.
And they'll be obsolete the day they're published.
Now it's all there.
You punch in.
You can update it at will.
Download precisely the parts that you need.
I mean, how can a printed book beat that, I wonder?
But then again, we're talking about literature and works of the imagination.
See, I think the purpose they serve needs to be thought of as entirely different.
In fact, if you really set out to do electronically what a book does, you can, on the surface, do it, but it's not a very positive experience.
I don't think that material laid out as a book is laid out is not meant to be read on a computer screen, and I think that people will lose patience with it pretty quickly.
I think, on the other hand, you can do things in a computer that
you can't do in print.
For example, within A Passion for Art, Curtis had the idea, when you go through reading the bibliographies of the artists and a painting is referred to, you simply click on it and you get the painting.
Yeah, but you actually see them in the index.
And then you see them in the index.
And you see them in the index.
So, I call that, in the bibliography, I call that illustrate on the fly.
You know, where, in effect,
We subscribed to National Geographic from 1962 to 1993.
When we sold our house in California, Liz said, and she regrets it now, she said, the National Geographics are not moving again.
We gave them to a school.
They're really happy.
But by the way, it turns out they aren't very valuable.
No, that's right.
Because everybody has kept all of them.
Well, there's a dealer who actually is going to nand every week.
Oh, he's looking for the collection.
But he won't pay a lot.
He's given a quarter, a copy.
Yeah, that's right.
He's probably not doing a... The school will probably get much more use out of it.
Well, yeah, the school... You did the right thing.
In fact, the school we picked was in Millbury, in California, and it was a school that was economically one that would really benefit from it.
I mean, it was good, fun.
But I won't go down this track.
Maybe Curtis talked about it.
But I think most of the people who have published electronically have tried to bring the book publishing paradigm into the electronic.
And I don't think it works there.
But I think that if you sort of start from scratch, as we did with A Passion for Art and our other titles, then I think you could do some things
Did Curtis show you Da Vinci?
Did he show you that he did?
I can't wait to see the finished.
You know, I think that little thing, I don't know what else to call it.
A codoscope.
Yeah, we call it a codoscope.
What he did is really an inspiration.
Right.
It's brilliant.
It's brilliant, but it makes so much sense when you see it.
I know.
But you have to understand the technology and the potential of the technology and what it can do for you that nothing else that we know of could possibly do.
There's a major project that IBM has underway at the Vatican Library.
And there's a manager at IBM who, his IBM life is managing 300 people, but his passion is this project that IBM has at the Vatican.
And the Vatican Library, through a priest named Father Boyle, has just opened up to IBM and this project.
It's amazing.
The guy running that project and the whole team that, I don't know if you saw the mail on it today, Laurie,
are coming to Corvus because they want to license the Kodascope to use with the manuscript there.
Oh, so you patented the Kodascope?
Well, we patented the technology, and we've trademarked or copywritten the name, but the name is more tied to a Kodax.
I mean, the name isn't as important as the method is.
The method by giving you a transliteration and a translation.
Right.
I was in, Monday, I was in Bonn, Germany, and
Jay Carter Brown, who is the former director of the National Gallery, director of emeritus, and he's on the advisory board at Corvus.
And I spoke in a conference that the German Ministry of Education and Research and Technology held on the kind of the future of information and the information highway.
500 people, you know, the heads of all the big publishing houses and the head of the
PTT in Germany and Italy, and what I showed them, because of the way they managed time, I had ten minutes.
And Carter sort of wrapped me, I mean, he started and then introduced me, and Carter's whole message was to say that, which is the same one that I believe, is, digital never improves on the original.
This is actually a quote of mine that he picked up, but
Digital never improves on the original, but it does enhance our understanding of the subject.
So don't confuse the fact that digital is ever going to be better than Renoir's Luncheon Before the Voting Party or something, which is at the Phillips in Washington.
I love the painting.
You know, digital, there's no way, I don't care where you go with flat screens and the rest, it's not going to equal.
But
What you can do with digital, and what I did with that group in Bond, is within the title, there's a timeline, and the Mona Lisa is there, and I went in and zoomed on it and scrolled around on it.
And having seen the Mona Lisa, they were looking at the Mona Lisa closer up than they can see it in the Louvre.
Which I've seen.
I mean, there's a crowd of people that's behind glass.
Oh, God, they have it so set up.
Yeah, and it's not... As a matter of fact, what I did...
And every now and then, you know, maybe it's serendipity, I was just lucky.
I said, you know, suppose you want to go down, and your real interest are her hands.
I had more people come up to me after.
They loved that, because so much is the smile on the face.
And I went, and the hands are exquisite that are in that.
But you can't see them.
You can't see them.
Well, and I'm just thinking of all the other, the famous drawings of hands and things, and how there's a launch pad for someone...
in the digital media to look at other hands by Leonardo.
Well, it's a way of tracing the creative process, which, as they will tell you, it's like manuscripts.
The creative process doesn't begin with the published text.
It begins with the drafts and the drafts and the manuscripts, and the same thing with the working sketches of hands or anything else.
You see how they arrived at the final solution.
Boy, another thing you could do if you're talking about the Vatican, imagine if you had the photos of the
the chapel ceiling prior and then afterwards and how you could use your scope to show what they did.
By the way, all that exists.
Meaning the photographs exist.
I'm sure the photographs do, but I'm saying what you could do... Oh, you could just scan them.
You could come up with some kind of thing that would show how it would be easy.
Oh, that's trivial.
Piece of cake, right?
No, and actually, well, you know, those...
We've done some things to make it look like magic.
They really are two separate bitmaps, two separate images that overlay.
I mean, there are people that look at it, and of course,
view it as a software program that sort of instantly translates.
Not quite.
That's a nice idea, too.
You mentioned Bill Gates a couple of times.
How closely does he work, since this is his baby, apparently?
This is quite apart from Microsoft.
Well, he's a chairman in two companies, Microsoft and Corvus.
He's invested in others, but he's not an officer in any other company but those two.
But this is a privately owned entity, right?
He is actually...
been very important to us to this stage, and I would expect his time in the future to actually increase, because I think we've gotten to the point now where there are opening up to us a lot of very interesting strategic opportunities, and there's some leveraging.
We know how to build an archive.
We know how to catalog in a way that people would like to buy both, but
We actually don't sell it because it's not our business.
I said, you don't sell what now?
Cataloging.
For example, we have an amazing thesaurus.
But this is something you only use internally for your own.
That's right.
And everybody who sees the thesaurus says, we'd like to buy it.
Sure, you want to give the competition?
No, not even competition.
They say, no, no, we're not.
I mean, competition.
And I say, well, I'm not in the thesaurus business.
If I sold it to you, would you like an update in six months because it'll change?
Oh, absolutely.
I said, that's not our business.
We don't do that.
Would you like a hotline?
Would you have tech support?
Yeah, I probably would.
We don't do that.
Where do you see the collection, the archive, going?
Do you have a scheme, a plan, a goal?
Are you just acquiring good, are you like fighter pilots, targets of opportunity, as you say?
You know, you see something really important and you go get it.
Well, I would say it's a mixture of both.
There is a taxonomy that is a plan that is in place that we're basically filling in the holes on.
Yeah, it's a company plan that relates to the collection.
Is that something I could see?
Probably not.
I mean, it's...
Yeah, as far as the math of the archive that Charles has been talking about.
The question begs to be asked.
Yeah, no, I know it does.
I know it does.
But the taxonomy provides the basic framework, and it also is a guide to when we, if we decide that we're getting too many polar bears, or, you know, in the Northwest you get a lot of polar bears, but we have great polar bears, but we probably...
are better flushed out on polar bears than we are on koalas.
I don't know.
And I think that's, I'm also talking in terms of, you know, you've got the Hermitage, and you've got the Bedman Archive, and you've got the Atal Adams, and, you know, various areas that you might be wanting to explore.
Medical, I mean, who knows?
I have no idea.
Well, let me say.
Various disciplines.
The categories we have set, we know where we're stronger and weaker, and within them we know by category where we have and don't have.
So we really have a plan on that.
At the same time, it was sort of interesting.
When Herb and I started talking even before I launched the idea with Bill, I could see that he was treading around this idea of purchasing.
And, you know, the Bettman Archive was not for sale.
I didn't know that, no.
No, it was actually not.
And it was one of the questions that the media came and heard on is, couldn't you have gotten more if you'd gone out and gone into auction and gotten... And he said, he's an interesting guy, by the way.
He is very different from Otto.
Well, the media didn't apparently know how much was paid for it, though.
They still don't.
Yeah, I've ever heard six million for what it was worth.
Well, there have been two numbers.
There's the $6 million that was in Newsweek.
The Wall Street Journal said $25 million.
Pick a number.
And we can neither confirm nor deny anything.
And the number that reportedly was paid for a business that's half or less the size of Bettman at Holt & Deutsch, called Holt & Deutsch, is 12.
It was paid by Getty.
But...
I thought six were low, to tell you the truth.
By the way, it's not only low, it's the wrong number.
I will say that much.
I mean, it would have been crazy to sell it for six.
As one who's attended many, many options, you're right, they could have done a hell of a lot better than six at a public auction.
By the way... But that's irrelevant.
I didn't ask them.
No, I know.
We paid a very fair price.
They're very happy.
Believe it or not, I'm not really overly concerned.
No, I know.
I know.
No, the interesting thing... Because I also believe whatever it was, it was worth it.
I believe that when Bill Gates spent $30 million for the Codex, it was worth it.
Right.
Because the Italians certainly thought it was worth it.
Otherwise, had they had more money, they would have bid more money.
That's life.
That's the way it goes.
You know, it's worth whatever... Two people would like to spend for it.
I'm sorry.
No, that's okay.
The reason I would say that the purchase of Bettman pushed us further in the direction of that sort of material than if we hadn't, we would have pushed.
So there's a little bit of this combination of the plan and the fighter pilot.
We have coveted
doing something in the area of photojournalism.
And we've been talking to photojournalists.
But the Turnley thing... And you know what?
The Turnleys started out as a licensing discussion.
And then we found that they were feeling... David and Peter live in Paris.
They're Americans.
They're twins.
They're... In fact, they were in here yesterday.
They're amazing personalities.
I mean, they're really, really interesting guys.
I mean, and they have...
I don't know what sort of journalists, you know, are basically put their life at stake all the time, more than any, practically any category of profession.
And the Ternleys, they're blonde, they're both striking looking, and they both are very articulate and very passionate, but they were concerned.
about what was going to happen to the 20 years of their output.
So they had a preservation concern.
And they also, the more they shot, the more the business side of it was eating into their time.
And they wanted to be free to do what they do, which is take photographs.
And so we moved from a licensing into a purchase situation, into an acquisition, and it was happiness on both sides.
It's a combination of all these things with you.
It's acquisition, it's outright ownership, it's licensing to use, non-exclusive.
And, of course, with public domain, I think we have 65 different public domain sources.
And I'm amazed.
I would have thought when we started, when I started two and a half years ago,
that people would have said with Library of Congress, wait a minute, I'd go to Library of Congress and get that.
Well, you can do it.
Which was what I did for the cover of my book, you know.
But, you know, the process by which you find things in the Library of Congress is not nearly as easy as this year.
I had to have known where it was and what the column number was, which helped a great deal.
And also the licensing fee from Corvus is going to be, or is,
competitive with the access fees that one pays at the Library of Congress.
I don't know if you remember how much you paid.
$7.50.
Oh, no.
Well, it's a little lower.
As opposed to the $500 the Morgan Library won for the same picture.
Right.
But to come back, there's a definite plan.
We're adding about 40,000 pictures a month now.
We'll go over a million this year.
My guess is that to be comprehensive, relatively comprehensive, it'll probably require our being at the five million level, which will take us, of course, a lot more time.
I think that at a million pictures, you always find something there, and people are increasingly, people are really buying
We had the best revenue month ever in licensing in August.
September's going to be better, I'm told.
And I think it's a byproduct.
Laurie and I were in Perpignan at a photojournalist show called Viseau Pour Le Mange, and I was staying with a family
in town where there's a connection, and the man who is a Catalan, French, but probably Catalan first, French second in that area, wanted to take me to see a medieval hill town called Castelieu.
And we went out in the late afternoon, we went over, we walked up into an incredible place, had a drink, and then we were back at his house, and he said, do you have any pictures?
He said, of that town.
He asked me, because he knew what business we were in.
I said, I don't know.
So I took my laptop.
I hooked it into his telephone.
I hooked into the network here in Seattle.
I searched, and we were within 45 minutes of being in the town, looking at pictures of Cassidy.
I thought he was going to die.
I mean, he... But then the next story... And then the next story, Laurie and I and other Corpus people were hosted...
by the mayor of Perpignol at a reception that started at 12.30 in the morning in his office, and it was a very classy affair with caviar and salmon and champagne and gifts.
I mean, he was really, he was really being very nice to us.
Very gracious.
We went from, part of it was he wanted to thank us for being there and for supporting this company, the whole show.
We sponsored an award this year.
We moved up into the little Corvus room
where we had a couple of computer terminals.
And we did a search on Perpignol, and one of the pictures in it was of his office.
Jeez.
Okay, Town Hall.
He said, that's where our old meeting... He thought it was a plan.
He thought we'd done that deliberately.
Now, where are the sources coming from?
This is just from stuff that you've acquired.
So every image that comes in, somebody has to catalog it, right?
That's that whole group.
That's what I said.
The largest devotion of people we have is in that group.
Almost 40 people.
Cataloging.
Now, I have a chapter in my book that's out now that...
I have a chapter on the University of Texas, the HRC.
You know, 30% of the stuff, only 30% of the stuff that they've acquired in the last 30 years is cataloged at this particular point.
You know, they've got only 70 people working on it, but it's going to take 20 years, 15 years to catalog everything.
How do you possibly have the resources to do a million pieces of paper?
We'll do... Of course, this is scholarly cataloging, too.
You just have to put the name of... I don't think it's as extensive as it is.
We have very few... We're doing serious... For example, every keyword has a relevancy.
It's the software that makes this whole thing possible, isn't it?
Totally.
It's impossible without it.
As a matter of fact, the way to think about cataloging is we don't add data to an image.
We insert an image, a picture, into data.
Let me illustrate that.
Let's suppose that you find a picture of the Nixon family dog that you want to have in the archive for some reason.
We have a body of pictures about the Nixon and Nixon family, and maybe on the Nixon family dog already.
You can pull that up, and in effect, you can think of it as you can almost attach from that repository
And then you need to reflect who the photographer was when it was taken, what differences there are.
Before I go today, can somebody demonstrate something like this?
At ABA, that was what we were doing, was doing searches into the archives.
This is something I should really see, I think.
That's where Nick and I met, was at the ABA conference.
Nick, if you were to take Corbett's, and you were starting to strip away everything we have here, and you could only be left with one function, it would be cataloged.
Cataloging is the most important thing we do and the software that surrounds that in Corvus.
And this is why it feeds in so beautifully to Microsoft and to what the company does, I guess.
Right.
Yeah, no, it does.
No, absolutely.
So, I'd like to reiterate one other point.
Bill had a vision.
in the late 80s that caused the founding of Corvus.
It was founded in 1989.
And his vision was that just as he and Paul Allen had seen software as an area of great opportunity when they founded Microsoft, they decided, you know, they figured out, maybe in advance of anybody, that the hardware was going to become a commodity and that the real value was going to be software.
in the whole computer industry, which has been borne out to a great extent.
Not that there isn't a lot of paid-for equipment, but it's gotten very commoditized.
There isn't quite the uniqueness that there is in software.
In the 80s, he said, you know, the same thing is going to happen with content, as we call what we have, that is pictures and other forms of information.
So Corbis was founded, and he's guided it.
He spends around six hours a month
in Corvus in one form or another, plus two full days.
It's a mixture of here and in his office.
Which is how far from here?
Ten minutes.
They're in Bellevue, too?
No, they're actually in Redmond, but the street that's right here is 156th, and the Microsoft campus is on 156th, north, ten minutes.
Maybe you can pick a write-up and just take a look at it.
Oh, you should, yeah.
Watch the speed limit signs.
This is legendary.
Our Microsoft visitors in particular, Corvus people going up there, I've never gotten a ticket.
But the Microsoft visitors are coming down here for meetings.
There have been more.
They come in and say, oh, God, sorry, I just got a speeding ticket down here.
But if you follow that north and just keep watching on your right,
and we can give you a little more direction than that.
You'll come right up into the Microsoft Academy.
I'd like to see it, actually.
No, it's huge.
It's quite amazing.
It's huge.
I've seen the photographs and enough of it.
It's nice.
No visit to Seattle would be complete.
Right.
I didn't get into the city, and I'm not likely to.
I'm leaving early tomorrow.
I'd like to call you at some point after I've had a chance to transcribe and say, the book is still three years away from publication.
So this is a first visit I would expect.
Perhaps I might even want to come back at some point.
I'll certainly want to go over your quotes with you.
No surprises with what I do.
I want people to be quoted accurately.
So maybe we can go over that at some point.
It'll be a matter of months, but I'm certain that there will be follow-up questions.
I think it's an important subject.
You met with Curtis.
Curtis's talent is unique.
It's wonderful, and I love Charles.
He's a former antiquarian bookseller.
Charles is amazing.
I mean, I think the strength of any organization are people.
There was a person who, representing, hey, this is my daughter, actually.
Hi.
How are you?
How are you doing?
Good.
You got it?
See ya.
Goodbye.
The people, but let me just ask you a question.
What is there in your background that prepared you for this?
I wonder what brought you up to.
That's a good question.
I was a double E undergraduate, MBA.
Cornell went to work for IBM.
worked there 22 years, left from 12 years ago.
Got recruited out of IBM at a time when it made the least sense for me to leave IBM.
And doing what with IBM?
I was director of quality in my last job.
Before that, I was the product manager for all of the large systems products at the right time.
Today is not the right time.
Which is, I'd like to say, is my wisdom, but a lot of it is luck.
I was in sales and marketing.
I was basically an engineer that got talked into going into sales and had a lot of fun with it.
And since then, I see myself as having been returning to the technology.
When the PC was invented in 1981, or was launched by IBM, my whole life started changing.
I left IBM three years later, and I'm a little bit, relatively speaking, of a computer nerd.
I mean, I really find it pretty.
You better not.
No, I find them fascinating.
I think for the 12 years since I've been out of IBM, I've been working.
The first nine of them were in different forms of images on the desktop.
The first company I went with, we spent a lot of time
strategizing on how to get into an application that we call imaging.
And what Corvus does is really a niche part of that.
I mean, it has a much different sort of a framework.
So I've been working on it.
I'm really passionate about the technology and the use of digital content and how people interact with it.
I was president of a software company in Berkeley called AXS just before coming to Corvus that
in some ways was a competitor of Corvus, except Corvus had nothing in the marketplace, and we were selling stuff.
You know, we, you know, a small company, it's evolved, and it's called Digital Collections, Inc.
today, and it's not doing much of anything, but it was really pioneering in the whole notion that computer technology was good enough to allow you to scan
look at photographs on a computer screen and print a photograph.
And you can today scan, look, print, and I'll give you the print, and I'll give you the original scan, and you can't tell them apart.
And you hold it up and you look at it on the screen, and the only difference is that the photoluminescence, because you're with a CRT, you're coming from behind, is it gives a sound of a glow, which with a Renoir works great.
A certain other
with, you know, illustrated manuscripts doesn't work, I don't think, at all, where they've been gold, you know.
The illuminated.
Oh, the illuminated ones.
Yeah, you know, the stuff, lubrication.
In fact, when IBM... The line coming from on top of... Yeah, when IBM did that Vatican thing, I mean, they're showing these illuminated manuscripts, and... It'll work.
It doesn't work.
Krauss, I don't know if you know the story, but the way that Krauss and Bettman got together is...
I think his name was H. P. Krauss.
Hans P. Krauss.
Hans P. Krauss was a rare book dealer.
Hans P. Krauss is, in my last book, in this new book, he was one of these emigre booksellers.
Right.
He, at the time, was probably the most important bookseller in the world when he died in 1980 or so.
He's a major, major guy, and his daughter, Marianne Krauss.
Now runs H.P.
Krause.
No, I know her.
I know her.
We've... Marianne Krause-Poulter.
Your husband is Roland Polter.
Well, we shook hands.
See, Herb is married to Marianne's sister, who's Bobby.
And so there are five Krause siblings.
Hans-Peter Krause, Jr., I guess, is a junior...
has his own business in Rare Photographs.
It's in the Mark Hotel in New York.
That's right.
H.P.
Crouch is owned by Marianne and her mother, Honey.
And her mother is... And they are so cute.
In fact... I'm interviewing them, by the way, for this new book.
Great.
Because Hans was one of these people who was forced out of Germany by Hitler.
Came here and basically...
I didn't mention I'm having a chapter on the emigres, but maybe 40 or 50 booksellers change the whole flow of books over a 50- or 60-year period to institutions.
It's a very fascinating story.
Have you been in the Crosshair books?
Oh, yes.
Well, you know, the upstairs room was their living room.
They lived there.
And the handshake on the Corvus Purgis abetment was there.
and all of our meetings were there, because we couldn't do it at Bettman, you know, and it was a nice setting.
No, I mean, there's a resonance with this book that makes it quite interesting.
The interconnection.
Oh, yeah.
And part of the reason I thought of that is that being in that floor gives you yet another chance to see some illuminated manuscripts, of which they have a number that are... Well, they have some from Mr. Thomas Phillips' collection, which I wrote about in my book.
This is a business, Laurie, where it's a very nice address in Midtown, New York.
It's a place that probably has one or two visitors a day.
Oh, yeah, and then it's, I think you have to get buzzed in.
I'm not even so sure you can walk in on the street.
They're very nice, okay, and so it isn't, but it's just,
Very understated.
That's right.
It's not the kind of place you go in and expect to pay $20 for a book.
It's the place you go in and spend maybe $10,000 for a book.
Right.
Or, you know, or whatever.
And apparently the catalogs cost $100 a piece.
Right, yeah.
Apparently there are 300 or 400 or 500 real serious collectors of these things around the world.
So they have a really enough...
They have a very defined customer.
Yeah, but it's also institutions like the Morgan Library and the Huntington and the Getty that buy them.
Right.
And, in fact, they'll get certain things that they'll offer directly to these institutions, and they'll have funds immediately available to acquire them.
I think it also helps.
You mentioned this outfit that you were with in Berkeley and why they haven't really gone as far as you obviously have.
I think the means to acquire this material
is your plus.
You know, the fact that you are a startup company, you don't have to report whether or not you're black or red.
It's not the, you know, and I'm not asking the question I asked Laurie earlier.
I mean, the question takes to be asked.
I'm sure at some point you want this, you expect this to be a profitable operation.
But in the meantime, you have to have capital to go out and be able to go out and buy it.
Yeah, this is not an easy business to get started.
And it's one that when, shortly after I started, Bill and I agreed that before we really could become viable in licensing, we needed a million images.
And we also both agreed that we didn't know why it was a million, but we just sort of... It sounded good.
It sounded good.
I'm glad we didn't say a billion.
You know, it felt... You consider a major collection of universities who I agree with in books.
Right.
It's a number.
And by the way, it's proving out.
I mean, it actually, when we started training at Simon & Schuster to give them direct access to the archive, we had a woman who said, I've been going crazy trying to find pictures of E. coli of a project.
And if I'd been there, I would have rolled my eyes.
I would have said, you know, do we have E. coli?
We had 10.
Sure.
Great pictures of people.
Of course.
You never would have been able to do that show that you did with the guy at Sara's office unless you had a million images.
I've never been frustrated doing research at Harvard University.
Why?
They have 13.5 million books.
Never.
I mean, I've looked for the most obscure, off-the-wall, crazy thing.
I've always been able to find it.
A certain mass of materials.
In my book, I'm sorry, but I've been... Okay, I'm sorry.
There are 16 million pictures at Bettman.
We estimate today, we may find out differently, that we'll put 200,000 to 300,000 of them in the digital collection.
So we'll make the selection.
When we have an agreement with the Hermitage in St.
Petersburg, and I believe they claim 4 million works of art, the numbers that we bring into the Corbus Collection will probably be in the thousands.
And so one of the important roles here... Will you catalog everything, though?
No, we'll catalog those that we put in.
But what if there's a request for something that's... Well, we have relationships.
We've done that already.
Yeah, but I mean, you might decide that there's something that you want that you chose not to digitize and put in the collection.
Well, we won't catalog it because even though the cataloging has gotten pretty inexpensive for us...
36 people catalog 40,000 items a month.
And so if you decided that you wanted to do 400, another 360,000 without the scan, the cost becomes pretty prohibitive.
I don't know, have you been at the new BNF in Paris?
No, that's... I was there Monday night.
It's on my schedule.
I went totally... There's a person that we've been working with...
This is amazing, Laurie.
I flew back through Paris just because it was a nonstop flight from Paris to San Francisco to get home faster, so I went back to Paris.
And Gilles and I did two things.
We went to, this is our compatriot, our distributor in France, we went over to BNF, and the French government
is just completing a new library, a new national library.
Oh, it's going to be in the concluding library in my opening chapter in my book.
It's the cost to build it was a billion dollars.
A little more, actually.
Okay.
Well, they don't talk about it.
And they don't even, there's no discussion of operating it, meaning that they not even, nobody, but the thing, it has a courtyard that has, that they brought in and planted a 75-foot tall tree.
Wow.
It is magnificent.
Four open books facing each other.
Oh, wow.
Four towers.
Four towers, but they're each an open book.
Oh, very cool.
And they also have a system that, as you were talking about, Harvard's not dissimilar, where there is a way to order up and have delivered books for many.
I don't know.
How many books do they have?
Oh, it's
I don't know.
I'd be guessing.
It's got to be 20 million.
The Library of Congress is the largest, I guess, in the world.
And the New York Public Library is the largest private in the world.
Harvard is the largest university in the world.
Well, BNF, I can't imagine in this country our building a building
Or at least, if they did it, they wouldn't talk about it.
For the Library of Congress, it's a billion dollars.
Would we spend a billion dollars on that?
Well, this was a monument.
I mean, this was a political scandal, and not a scandal, cause I left, I guess, wasn't it.
Right.
It's very cool.
It's on the... I can't wait to go see it.
It's on the... And the British Library is doing the same sort of thing.
This, you know, I did an interview with Paul Leclerc, New York Public Library, a couple weeks ago.
He said, you know, you worry about libraries of the future.
He said, no time in history has more money been spent than it's being spent right now for brand new libraries.
He mentioned the Paris one, the new British library, which is scheduled to open, the San Francisco one I just visited two days ago, brand new one in Germany.
All over the world are these multi, multi-million dollar facilities going up for libraries.
Libraries aren't going to disappear.
By the way, you probably need no introduction or need no contact
at BNF, but the man who's our associate there, or a friend there, his name is Roland Scher, and I'll get you the information.
And he is sort of at the second level below, you know, one level below the top.
So is the library actually open?
Oh, yeah.
Well, no.
The offices are in.
The public can't come in yet.
They actually have, there's a public
And then there's the, what do you call it?
They sort of have two areas of the library.
Oh, there's the Bibliote Nationale, which is the... No, no, all within the library, there are two... You enter, by the way... Oh, I've not been there yet.
The ceilings in this place are 42 feet high.
Wow.
And the architect made them.
That's exactly the height in the old library, which they're keeping.
And that's pretty amazing itself.
You mean the bibliosegments, you know?
Yeah.
They're not moving it over there.
They're going to be operating both of them.
Really?
Oh, yeah, that's right.
In the old reading rooms.
Listen, I'm cutting into his time.
I know he's supposed to leave it for us.
Is there any track that we haven't gone down that you would like to?
I'd just like to keep open the opportunity to call you and ask you any other questions that might develop.
And you've got to make sure you're going to show him.
I don't actually have.
One of the things we're going to do that's really intriguing is we're going to create an offering for the educational community that could and I think will become a resource for academic libraries as sort of an extension.
So, you know, Corvus will be more than a million pictures.
We've shown this
product we use for accessing the archive called CODI to several librarians, academic libraries, Georgetown is one of them.
The potential they see for it within the educational community is incredible because of, again, the complementary aspect.
I mentioned the E. coli virus is just one example.
If you need something for your class, you're giving a lecture on, you know, whatever.
Right.
And all you have to do with that community
is mention that you've got a million pictures, and they start giving you ways they'd use it.
Obviously, our history, they have so many.
And it's our intention, there are three markets that we're focusing on.
One is one we call professional licensing, and that's probably the smallest market of the three, but it's the one that we're
sort of cutting our teeth on in terms of making images available.
These are publishers that, you know, magazines and books, Simon & Schuster and Elijah, that's the market.
The second one is an educational market in which access to the archive and a different form of it than you do for professional licensing is one part, and we're going to be doing, Curtis's group is going to be doing some authoring for that community, for the educational community.
And then the third one is the consumer
You've done four titles so far, but that's the one most visible to the public, isn't it?
Right, but when I say consumer, I'm not thinking of consumer in terms of a CD-ROM.
I'm thinking of the consumer who all of a sudden wakes up and has a very high-capacity connection to an appliance that's in their living room that isn't a TV set, it isn't a computer, but is
is a combination of those two.
It has kind of the benefits of both.
I mean, it might have a price like a TV set, but have a capacity like... So this is something that's coming.
Yeah, it's coming.
And by the way, that's sort of the sequence we're going after it.
And when you say, well, what would the consumer want to do?
Well, it could be...
the high school student doing a paper.
You know, I mentioned my daughter getting Winston Churchill's picture off, you know, for her paper, a 13-year-old kid, and was the head of Microsoft, and I think it said Microsoft, it didn't say Corvus, maybe it's Corvus.
She probably pulled it off of a card, I don't know.
Yeah, I think so, yeah, something she found and printed it up, a bit of me on the paper.
Microsoft is actually a major buyer of images.
They buy from a lot of the stock photo agencies, as well as from Corvus for their products.
It could have been a credit line.
Well, anyway, I really see the electronic, and to go back to the original point, as being very complementary to other forms of information.
You know, new forms of information have intended to replace old ones, at least in the recent number of years.
So I think that if you could
could complement whether it be learning or entertainment or a business-related use with pictures and sounds and video as a supplement to the other forms of printed material.
I mean, then I think you really... Learning happens a lot more easily.
Yeah, there were a lot of areas I covered with Charles and Curtis, so there's no reason to replicate it at this point.
I feel like I'm...